---
title: About
layout: about
---
# About
"The Ruth Finley Collection: Digitizing 70 Years of the *Fashion Calendar*"" is a 24-month digitization and digital humanities project organized by The Fashion Institute of Technology’s (FIT) Art History and Museum Professions department and the FIT Library’s unit of Special Collections and College Archives (SPARC). The project will increase access, discoverability, and search optimization of the Ruth Finley Collection, comprising FIT's unique *Fashion Calendar* archive and two supplementary publications: *Home Furnishings Calendar* and *Fashion International*.

For 70 years, Ruth Finley (1920-2018), a legend in American fashion, was the exclusive publisher of this independent, weekly periodical that served as the official scheduling clearinghouse for the American fashion industry. Finley documented and directly influenced the development of American fashion during its ascendancy in the 20th century, along with access to other global fashion centers. This project will be the most substantial contribution to date of new knowledge to the field of American and global fashion and cultural studies, with significant impact for scholars, educators, students and the public everywhere. This project is supported by a Digitizing Hidden Collections grant from the Council on Library and Information Resources (CLIR). The grant program is made possible by funding from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.

Project Co-Principal Investigators, Adjunct Assistant Professor Natalie Nudell (Art History) and Professor Karen Trivette (FIT SPARC) will lead various related activities including and not limited to convening a focus group of global scholars from myriad, relevant disciplines, who will contribute to the design of a web-based portal. The resulting portal will be the bridge connecting researchers and the Calendar content they seek. FIT Digital Initiatives Librarian and Assistant Professor Joseph Anderson will be the technology lead for the project. The project will also engage FIT student interns/lab assistants, who will create the project’s mission-critical metadata for each of the more than 50,000 pages across all of the Collections’ contents.
